.\" Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Ian Marco Moffett and the Osmora Team.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Hyra nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd May 17 2024
.Dt KCONF 1
.Os Hyra
.Sh NAME
.Nm kconf - kernel configuration

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ft cat CONFIG_FILE | kconf

.Sh DESCRIPTION
During the kernel build process, kconf parses a config file and
generates define flags that can be passed to the compiler.

Example config file:

--
.Bd -literal
// Example of options that can be enabled
// and disabled.
option FOO                  yes
option BLAH                 no

// Example of constants that can be set
// within the kernel.
setval SOME_INT             32
setval SOME_STR             "foo"
.Ed
--

The above example will output the following:

-D__FOO=1 -D__BLAH=0 -D__SOME_INT=32 -D__SOME_STR="foo"

The
.Ft option
keyword allows options to be toggled on or off (yes, no).

The
.Ft setval
keyword sets a global constant within the kernel.

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ian Moffett Aq Mt ian@osmora.org
