.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Ian Marco Moffett and the Osmora Team.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Hyra nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd Aug 2 2025
.Dt OSH 1
.Os HYRA
.Sh NAME
.Nm osh - OSMORA shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
osh [optional file]

.Sh DESCRIPTION

OSH is a simple shell interpreter that is capable of executing commands
from the user via stdin or a shell script file passed as an argument.

.Sh COMMENTS
OSH supports the use of comments (i.e., pieces of text ignored by the shell)
denoted by '@'. The following is an example of using comments:

.Bd -literal
echo hello !!    @ Echos the text "hello !!"
.Ed

.Sh DEFINITIONS
OSH defines "control operators" as any character(s) reserved by OSH for
representing specific operations (e.g., background jobs, command repetition, etc):

The
.Ft '&'
control operator is used after a command or binary path
in order to run the executable as a background job, allowing
the shell to continue immediately. Here is an example of running "sleep" in the background:
.Bd -literal
--
@
@ Usually this will hang the shell for 5
@ seconds until sleep wakes up. However,
@ when we postpend '&', the shell executes
@ 'sleep' as a background job and continues
@ as usual.
@
sleep 5  &
--
.Ed

The
.Ft '!!'
control operator is used to repeat the most recently used
command. This is simply written by itself like this:

.Bd -literal
--
echo "hewwo"    @ Echo "hewwo"
!!              @ Do it again...
--
.Ed

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ian Moffett Aq Mt ian@osmora.org
