.\" Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Ian Marco Moffett and the Osmora Team.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Hyra nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd Feb 20 2024
.Dt PCI_CONF 9
.Os Hyra
.Sh NAME
.Nm pci_conf - PCI config space interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In dev/pci/pci.h

.Ft pcireg_t
.Fn pci_readl "struct pci_device *dev" "uint32_t offset"

.Ft void
.Fn pci_writel "struct pci_device *dev" "uint32_t offset" "pcireg_t val"

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The PCI configuration space is a 256-byte region implemented
per device, consisting of registers used for host-to-device
communication and device-specific configuration.

The Hyra PCI driver provides an API for interfacing
with a device's configuration space.

The
.Ft pci_readl()
function returns a 32-bit value from the
configuration space of the device pointed
to by the
.Ft dev
argument. The
.Ft offset
argument describes how far into the configuration
space should be read from.

The
.Ft pci_writel()
function writes a 32-bit value into the configuration
space of the device pointed to by the
.Ft dev
argument. The
.Ft offset
argument describes how far into the configuration space
.Ft val
should be written to.

For more information, refer to section 6 of the PCI Local Bus
Specification 3.0

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ian Moffett Aq Mt ian@osmora.org

.Sh HISTORY
First appeared in Hyra v1.2
