.\" Copyright (c) 2023 Ian Marco Moffett and the Osmora Team.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Hyra nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH SYSLOG 9 2023-12-18 "Osmora" "Hyra Operating System"
.Sh NAME
.Nm syslog - hyra system logging interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/syslog.h

.Bd -literal
void kprintf(const char *fmt, ...);
void vkprintf(const char *fmt, va_list *ap);
.Ed

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The Hyra syslog interface allows kernel logging. The
.Ft kprintf()
function allows writing a string with formatting.

The
.Ft vkprintf()
function allows passing a pointer to a
.Ft va_list
somewhere in memory. While essentially doing the same thing as
.Ft kprintf()

The "%c" format specifier is for characters (single byte)

The "%s" format specifier is for strings

The "%d" format specifier is for base-10 values

The "%x" format specifier is for base-16 values

Is it recommend to use macros like
.Ft KINFO()
or similar for standard logging.

All of these macros are defined in the
.Ft sys/syslog.h
header. But require
.Ft __THIS_MODULE
to be defined by the
.Ft __MODULE_NAME()
macro found in
.Ft sys/cdefs.h

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ian Moffett Aq Mt ian@osmora.org
