.\" Copyright (c) 2023-2024 Ian Marco Moffett and the Osmora Team.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Hyra nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd Jan 12 2024
.Dt TIMER 9
.Os Hyra
.Sh NAME
.Nm timer - hyra timer abstraction
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/timer.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The timer registry abstraction allows timers on the machine
to be registered as a generic timer type allowing other parts
of the kernel to request a timer of that type e.g scheduler reserved
timers (TIMER_SCHED). All timers within the system are represented via
a timer descriptor which is simply the
.Ft timer
struct.

The timer struct pointer fields are optional and must
be
.Ft NULL
if unused. Therefore it is the requesting kernel module's responsibility to verify
a field is not unused before using it for obvious reasons.


However, it is highly recommended to set the
.Ft name
field. This field on an HPET timer could be, for example:
.Ft HIGH_PRECISION_EVENT_TIMER

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ian Moffett Aq Mt ian@osmora.org
