.\" Copyright (c) 2023-2025 Ian Marco Moffett and the Osmora Team.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Hyra nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd Jun 6 2024
.Dt VM_MAP 9
.Os Hyra
.Sh NAME
.Nm vm_map - create/destory a virtual memory mapping
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In vm/map.h

.Ft int
.Fn vm_map "struct vas vas" "vaddr_t va" "paddr_t pa" "vm_prot_t prot" "size_t count"

.Ft int
.Fn vm_unmap "struct vas vas" "vaddr_t va" "size_t count"

.Sh DESCRIPTION

The Hyra virtual memory mapping framework provides a machine independent
interface for mapping and unmapping pages to respective page frames.

The
.Fn vm_map
function creates a virtual to physical memory mapping.

The
.Fa vas
argument specifies the virtual address space for the mapping
to be created within.

The
.Fa va
argument specifies the virtual address to be mapped.

The
.Fa pa
argument specifies the physical address that
.Fa va
is to be mapped to.

The
.Fa prot
argument specifies the virtual memory protection flags.

The
.Fa count
argument specifies the number of bytes to be mapped which
is to be aligned to the machine's page size.

The
.Fn vm_unmap
function destroys a virtual to physical memory mapping.

The
.Fa vas
argument specifies the virtual address space for the mapping
to be destroyed within.


The
.Fa va
argument specifies the virtual address to be unmapped.

The
.Fa count
argument specifies the number of bytes to be unmapped which
is to be aligned to the machine's page size.

.Sh AUTHORS
.An Ian Moffett Aq Mt ian@osmora.org

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr vm_map 9
